JAWS
(Alternative Software)


A monstrous great white shark is terrorising the beaches of Amity
Island. A grim discovery confirms the worst - he's out there and he's
hungry. In a bid to save the island's failing tourist trade, Mayor
Vaughn engages a professional shark killer from the mainland. Unfort-
unately, en route, a fierce storm wrecks his boat, and the means of
JAWS' destruction is scattered throughout the caves and chasms of a
menacing sea world.


THE GAME

Brodie, Amity's Chief of Police, has the task of ridding the waters off
the island of Jaws. He has persuaded Quint, a local fisherman, and
Hooper, an oceanographic expert, to assist him. Hooper has also brought
along three highly qualified divers to help with the equipment.

Unfortunately, the equipment and weapon required to kill Jaws were lost
in a reef off the coast, which the transporter vehicle hit and sank.
Brodie's team of six has first to recover the four sections of the gun
and the special bullets required to kill Jaws, from the horror-infested
caverns below the reef. This achieved, one member of the party has to
attempt to destroy Jaws, using the deadly weapon constructed from the
parts found in the depths.

The diver will be placed in the area where Jaws is prowling. He will be
limited to 80 seconds of air and four Mega-Bullets. Each one will flash
when it's ready for firing. A hit or miss will then be indicated on the
control panel.

Jaws will only be killed by your hitting him three times before your air
runs out or you collide with Jaws or any sea creatures. If this fails,
there will be no second chance!

Spectrum 128K version only. Brodie's task is further complicated by
Mayor Vaughn's short-sighted attitude. His insistence that, despite the
risk of attack, the beaches should be kept open for the summer tourists,
causes a real dilemma. If you close too many beaches for too long,
you're likely to find yourself out of a job. However, if you ignore the
warning signs, and too many swimmers perish, the mainland authorities
will shut down the island. Acting on local information of shark
sightings, together with the island's weather reports, you must try to
keep as many beaches open as possible without loss of life. You must get
to know your enemy, his movements, and the way his behaviour varies with
the weather. Ignore this, and success will be hard.

Underwater, things are complicated by the presence of various sea
creatures, some of which are listed below.

Flashing Sea Creatures - can only be shot with Mega-Bullets.

Normal Sea Creatures - can be killed by shooting them one or more times.
At the start of the game these creatures are fairly weak, but as time
goes by they increase in strength and require more hits.

Some hide more deadly creatures which are released when shot.

Others hide treasures and useful pieces of equipment.


Treasure & Equipment Icons

[see JAWS1.GIF for icon pictures]

* Invisible
  Your underwater camera loses sight of your craft for a few seconds.
  However, the sea creatures can still see you.
* Half Speed 
  Faulty power cells which cause a drain on the drive units and slow down
  your craft for a short while.
* Extra Diver
  An additional crew member joins your team to assist you in your search
  for the gun pieces.
* Smart Bomb
  These devices will kill any sea creatures on-screen by sending a
  compression wave through the water.
* Dangerous Walls
  The walls of the caverns become dangerous for a short period of time.
  This will be signalled by a warning sound.
* Air
  Your supply is continually depleting, so these give you the chance to
  replenish your supply and remain submerged longer.
* Fast Bullets
  This device gives additional charge to the compressed air-gun on your
  craft, propelling projectiles at increased speed while the charge lasts.
* Gun Bits
  There are four of these to be found.
* Time Bomb
  These are faulty concussion mines which will destroy the submersible.
  Your only means of escape is to leave the screen before it explodes.
* Mega-Bullets
  These are high-power compressed air shells, which can penetrate the
  thick skins of otherwise invulnerable sea creatures. Use them wisely as
  they are in short supply. They are also needed to kill Jaws.
* Treasure
  These add to the collection of valuables stored on your ship.

Other dangers facing your divers:
- colliding with a sea creature
- being shot by a sea creature
- accidentally shooting an invulnerable sea creature
- colliding with a deadly wall
- colliding with Jaws
- running out of air
- shooting a gun part or a bomb
- being on-screen when a bomb explodes

At the start of a game divers are shielded and take more than one hit
before being killed. After the shields have worn off, any of the above
will kill a diver.


A VERY SMALL SECTION OF THE UNDERSEA WORLD

[see JAWS2.GIF]


CONTROL PANEL LAYOUT

[see JAWS3.GIF]


GENERAL CONTROLS

Z = left
X = right
K = up
M = down
L = fire
P = pause (press Q to quit)

Spectrum 128K version only:

Map Mode:
Left/right - select beach to open/close
Fire - open/close beach
Up - return to Surface Mode

Surface Mode:
Fire - launch diving vessel (if still on boat)
Down - switch to Map Mode
Space - toggle between Surface Undersea Mode
(if diving vessel has already been launched)

Underwater Mode:
Space - toggle between Surface Undersea Mode


LOADING INSTRUCTIONS

Spectrum 48K/128K cassette:
LOAD ""

Spectrum +3 disc
Insert and press RETURN


CREDITS
Jaws (tm) & (c) 1975 Universal Pictures. All rights reserved.
Licensed by Merchandising Corporation of America, Inc.


(c) Alternative Software Limited 1990
